{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .AppleSystemUIFontMonospaced-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11980\viewh11880\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Project Description
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
As a security professional, I used Linux commands to manage file and directory permissions in a simulated environment. My objective was to identify and remove unauthorized access from sensitive research files. Using commands like 
\f2 ls -la
\f1  and 
\f2 chmod
\f1 , I ensured that only the appropriate users and groups had access to key project files.\
\

\f0\b\fs30 Check File and Directory Details
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf2 Command used:\
ls -la /home/researcher2/projects\
\
Sample output:\
drwx--x--- 2 researcher2 research_team 4096 Oct 14 18:40 drafts\
-rw-rw-rw- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Oct 14 18:40 project_k.txt\
-rw-r----- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Oct 14 18:40 project_m.txt\
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Oct 14 18:40 project_r.txt\
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Oct 14 18:40 project_t.txt\
-rw-rw---- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Oct 14 18:40 .project_x.txt\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Permissions Source:
\f1\b0 \cf2  Based on the \'93Current file permissions\'94 document [110].\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Describe the Permissions String
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
Example: 
\f2 -rw-rw-rw-
\f1 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2 -
\f1 : It\'92s a regular file.\
	\'95	
\f2 rw-
\f1 : The user has read and write permissions.\
	\'95	
\f2 rw-
\f1 : The group has read and write permissions.\
	\'95	
\f2 rw-
\f1 : Other users also have read and write permissions (
\f3\b security risk
\f1\b0  in this case).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Change File Permissions
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf2 Issue:
\f1\b0 \cf2  
\f2 project_k.txt
\f1  had write permissions for \'93other,\'94 which violates the organization\'92s policy.\
\

\f3\b \cf2 Command used:\
chmod o-w project_k.txt\
\
Result:
\f1\b0 \cf2  The file\'92s permissions changed from 
\f2 -rw-rw-rw-
\f1  to 
\f2 -rw-rw-r--
\f1 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Change File Permissions on a Hidden File
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf2 File:
\f1\b0 \cf2  
\f2 .project_x.txt
\f1 \

\f3\b \cf2 Issue:
\f1\b0 \cf2  Group had write permissions. The file should be 
\f3\b \cf2 read-only
\f1\b0 \cf2  for both user and group.\
\

\f3\b \cf2 Command used:\
chmod ug=r .project_x.txt\
\
Result:
\f1\b0 \cf2  The file permissions changed from 
\f2 -rw-rw----
\f1  to 
\f2 -r--r-----
\f1 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Change Directory Permissions
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf2 Directory:
\f1\b0 \cf2  
\f2 /home/researcher2/projects/drafts
\f1 \

\f3\b \cf2 Issue:
\f1\b0 \cf2  Group had execute (
\f2 x
\f1 ) access. Only the owner should access this directory.\
\

\f3\b \cf2 Command used:\
chmod g-x drafts\
\
Result:
\f1\b0 \cf2  Permissions changed from 
\f2 drwx--x---
\f1  to 
\f2 drwx------\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 Summary
\f1\b0\fs28 \
\
In this project, I examined file and directory permissions for a research team using Linux. I used 
\f2 ls -la
\f1  to audit permissions and 
\f2 chmod
\f1  to remove unauthorized write or execute access. By adjusting these settings, I ensured that sensitive research files were restricted to authorized users only. This hands-on task reflects how security professionals manage file access in real-world systems to prevent data leaks or unauthorized changes.
\f3\b \cf2 \
}